Hello and welcome to sent OS installation.
This is the fun part.
Yes,
this is where we going to get our hands dirty.
We gonna go ahead and download the center Will s I s O image file from the from the
Internet.
Once we have it downloaded,
then we will go through the installation.
A complete installation off sent OS Lennox operating system.
So you ready?
So now I want you to go ahead and open up your browser.
Any browser that you prefer,
whether it's ie,
Firefox or chrome.
So let's go in.
I have my browser open already.
Um,
I will go into Google now.
The second step is you could use Google or any search engine that you like and I want you
to type sent os download and hit Enter.
Once you hit enter,
you will get the first length I want you go and click on it.
Or you could simply go and click on download.
But first,
let's go to this first link.
So in the first slink or the first page,
you will see download Santo s Now,
Sometimes you will see three options in this page.
One is a DVD.
I s o second one is everything DVD I eso and 3rd 1 is minimal.
I s o If you are seeing three or if you're seeing too right now,
it doesn't matter because what we need is DVD.
I s so this is the one that we need to click on.
So go ahead and click on DVD.
I So this will bring you to the links where the eyes are.
Images are saved.
So all those links are actually the links to the servers or they're often time referred to
as mirrors.
These mirrors,
when you click on it,
will take you to the file where the file location is.
So go ahead and a pick Anyone off your choice over recommend that you pick the 1st 1 So go
ahead and click on the 1st 1 Once you click on the 1st 1 it will ask you or prompt you to
save the file.
You have to save the file.
Ah,
to you to the locations so going.
Click.
Okay,
if you do not know where the file is being saved,
you see this little arrow here?
If you are using the,
uh,
fire walks,
he will see this little arrow here.
Click on it and it will tell you that it is being downloaded.
Right now.
I do not want to download because I have already downloaded that file previously because I
don't want to waste time,
your time and my time to go through the company download.
So let's minimize this page.
Let's go to a desktop because all my,
um,
downloads go into my desktop now.
You already have this center west.
Okay,
Now,
I want you to go ahead and click on a double click on your Oracle War Troll box.
The icon you have on your desktop.
If you do not have that icon,
your desktop,
then you go to start menu and find that up and you will go ahead and start from here.
When it opens up,
you will see the my first Lennox for Lennox PM.
The one recreated earlier.
These two You're probably not going to see it because I was playing around with some
windows.
Were for machine anyway,
it's just you could just ignore them.
Um,
click on the first,
my first Linux VM and click on start.
Now,
this is powering up yours from machine.
This is exactly the same way as if you powering on your physical machine,
but pressing the button on it.
So now it is asking,
since this washing machine has no operating system,
so by default is asking you to attach award actual disk to it.
So it is asking where is the location off that were actual disc,
which you want to install that operating system.
So go ahead and click on this little icon which will browse us to our desktop where we have
our eyes.
So image safe.
Click on this one,
and you will see right here on our desktop folder.
When you click on our desktop,
you come down and you will see right here say,
Santo s seven,
which we have downloaded Ah,
few minutes ago.
So go ahead and click on open and click on start.
Ah,
by the way,
this top thing right here is telling you have option to capture key ward option.
Turn on.
This will cause the upper virtual machine arm of the capture.
You could just go ahead and cancel it.
Now it's telling you at this green is selling you.
This is a cent or seven installed center or seven.
Test this media and installed center a seven,
or do the troubleshooting right now by default.
Test this media and install center.
A seven is selected.
You do not want to test this media.
Usually this option is picked when you have a DVD install and the reason we do the test
because sometimes the DVD have scratches on it.
That's why we wanted to go through the test.
So since this is I saw image.
We don't do that.
So go ahead and hit up arrow key on your keyboard and it will select or highlight the top
one.
It's State installed Cento a seven and now go ahead and hit.
Enter It is actually bringing the eyes.
So image copying the files that are needed to actually install the operating system so it
will go through certain start up processes.
It will start up the gui that will allow us to go through the installation off the lyrics
Center s are bring system.
We will give it a minute for the going to come up.
See right here says starting installer one moment and installer.
The Gui itself is called Anaconda.
This is a name they have given Why?
I don't know,
But this is the name If you want to keep in mind Um you just remember that anaconda is the
Gui tool or degree Viz erred.
That will help you to install the Lennox offering system.
Now you are under welcome to Cento a seven.
Ah,
welcome page.
What language would you like to use during the installation?
Ah,
by default English and I'm in the United States.
I'll pick English United States if you are in any other country.
Ah,
we recommend is you pick that country or if you want to pick a different language,
you could pick that.
However,
I am not going to tell you how you could go through the installation with different
language anyway,
So I support for that.
You stay on English and then you definitely you could pick a different country.
Now go ahead and click on.
Continue at the bottom.
Right.
Okay,
so now it says,
please complete items mark with this action.
This icon before continue to the next step.
Now the date and time is the 1st 1 we have already pre selected America's New York Time
zone.
If you wanted to change the time zone,
depending on which times of your and go ahead and click on it and change the time zone
keyboard by default.
It selects English and U S um language support a gain.
English United States installation Source.
Local media,
Which means that we are installing the operating system through the local Aiso image,
so it's already been selected.
Perfect.
Next stop software selection.
This is where it has by default the software selection as minimal install.
If you leave that as is minimal installed,
then it will install the lyrics operating system,
but it will not have any gooey on it.
Well,
remember one thing most of the time.
Incorporate Marmon.
There are no gooey on Lennox,
but since we are going through some practice,
we will go through some GUI practices as well,
because I do want you to know how Gui works in Lenox as well.
So we'll go ahead and click on software selection,
and that's where we will pick um,
a couple of different additional software that are required in the middle installed.
Ah,
we have other options as well.
If you want to use system administration tools are any other tools you could pick them.
We could leave as default.
Compute nodes,
anything.
Any debugging tools,
directory clients,
hardware monitoring tools,
development tools.
Most of these tools are used by developers.
Since we are not going through the development training,
we we will leave that.
As is infrastructure server.
Ah.
What type off server are we going to run on this machine?
I will tell you you could pick,
um,
anyone that you think you might need it later on.
Um,
you could pick the d n a server for now because we are going to core DNS,
which is bind in this training so you could pick DNS if you do not pick Deanna Sarah this
time,
there is no issue.
We could always insult the in a server or package later on,
but anyway,
just to show you how it works,
I just selected one DNS name server.
Anything else that you want to select here?
You could.
If you don't want to just follow my lead,
then let's go to the next one says file and print server.
You could leave everything as is a said basic Web server.
You don't need it.
Work authorization hosts and no several with Cool.
Yes.
This is where we have to come in.
And if you notice as you are going down,
all the other options that were available on the base environments are actually added here
as well.
So don't worry about it.
They're repetitive.
It's not that this option will have a different d n a server and with this based
environment.
So right now we are in the server with Gui Environment.
I want you to go down and pick um que d e which is Katie easa.
Plasma workspace are highly conferred with graphical user interface.
I also want you to pick Java platform because if you are running certain application that
requires Yaba,
we could bring that up.
Um,
that see what we have?
You have all the virtualization tool.
Um,
okay,
I think we are good hair,
but the Katie eat now The next one is genome desktop now Genome desktop are the ah,
the desktop that also per wide some type of applications.
Um,
for the user,
let's say if you want to use Firefox or if you want to use,
um calculators or something on the gooey side,
then you could select this.
That stop as well.
So go ahead and click on genome applications.
Um,
any other tools we need Internet application,
email,
chat,
video conferencing software.
We don't want that because most likely incorporate environment.
You will not be using any of thes Katie plasma workstation workspaces development and
creative workstation,
and that's pretty much it.
You don't really need any other applications or add ons for the selective environment.
Now go ahead and click.
Done.
Now you will see this option right here.
It will tell you checking software dependency.
It means it is going toe our ISA image and asking that isa image.
Hey,
this user has selected thes these many packages.
Do you have these packages for me to install on this harboring system is going to say,
Hey,
okay,
no problem.
Let me go ahead and check that.
So it's checking the source,
and it's checking the software dependency as well.
So what is needed for those add ons that we need to install installation destination while
it's running will go to the next one.
It's his installation destination now.
How do we want to protection our disk and solution destination right now?
Says automatic partitioning selected If you want to change that?
Meaning Right now,
we have 10 gig.
This is the discus size that we selected when we were creating the worship machine.
This this size has shown up here is telling us we have 10 gig of disk space.
How do you want to partition it?
We're telling it automatically configure the partitioning if you know,
or if your organization has a requirement to partition a disk into different slices or
different partitioning than you will go ahead and click on.
I will configure,
Petitioning.
Now,
go ahead and click on.
Done.
Next one is K dump.
Que dump is enabled If something goes wrong,
K means Colonel,
if there is something wrong with your system Ah,
Colonel is going to write some messages,
um,
logs that is often referred in Lenox language as a dump that is enabled.
So it's always a good practice to leave that enabled.
So this way,
if you are troubleshooting with your vendor,
let's say if you have cento us red hat involved,
they could go at and take a look at your logs.
Next one we have is networking and host name.
Okay,
you We are on a network and host name configuration.
At the bottom,
you'll see Host name.
Go ahead and highlight what we have right now and hit,
delete and type in the host name off.
The Lennox operating system will type the same one as we picked for R V M my first Lennox
VM and click on Apply as soon as you click on apply.
You'll see the current host name was changed to the host name that you have picked.
Now the second thing is to configure the even it.
Now,
remember,
by default if your machine or the washing machine,
this is your washing machine.
If it is running on a PC that has one gig,
often network port,
it will show up here as beat one gig,
and right now it is showing its wired for me because I have selected or I are my machine
where I'm running this worship machine is wired,
so go ahead and click on configure and by default it will show up The tab as Ethan at E E
and P zero s three is the name off our network adapter.
So we'll click on General and we click automatically connect to this network when it is
available that arrest of this setting is blacked out by default.
You could leave as default I PV before setting is the setting for automatic DCP.
If you want to assign an I P,
then you would have to change it to manual.
But we want the I P to be assigned automatically.
So if you leave it as is I'm the last one is i pp six settings.
We don't use that right now,
so go ahead and click on safe.
So once you click on save,
you will see its tells you automatically connected.
It is given an I.
P Already.
And now you could go ahead and click on Done.
Okay.
And so our network and host name has been configured.
Now,
the last part is security profile.
No profile is selected.
You believe that as as unless your organization has a specific procedure to put in place
for security policies,
then you could define it here.
But for now,
you could just leave as is,
and go ahead and click on begin installation.
Once you click on begin installation,
you will see at the bottom.
It will start creating your your partitions.
That were selected that you ask the system to select it for you.
Now it's going to starting package installation process.
While this is going through the package installation,
we have to,
um,
uses settings to define.
First is root password.
So go ahead and click on root.
Password is not set.
And here you would have to put in the root password.
Pick anything that you you will remember if you notice I picked a week Password.
You should pick a strong password if you are,
Um,
if you're working for a company or for you or an organization,
But if you are just following my lab or you're doing this everything as a tutorial,
that is fine.
You could pick a week password.
However,
if you notice at the bottom it says the password you have provided it is weak.
The password fails.
The directory check.
It is based on a direction dictionary word which you will have to press done twice to
confirm.
So okay,
I understand it is a weak password.
In order for me to keep that password,
I have to press it done twice.
One to now it has taken that weak passwords,
user creation Let's go ahead and create our first user.
Full name.
Let's put in our first name by default.
Lennox takes the first name as the first letter.
First initial last name is complete.
Last name.
So for me,
the user name will be I of soul.
Keep your user name shorter than 32 characters and you do not use spaces.
That is fine.
We are not using any spaces were wholly using six letters.
Make this user administrator.
You could lead that out.
Requires a password to use this account.
Yes,
the pickup password.
Again.
It is weak.
I understand.
And I would have to do the same thing Done twice.
Okay,
it is done.
Now if you come down and you notice right here it The operating system is installing or
this Viz erred is installing packages for this offering system.
Total number of packages that are required to be installed are 1397.
You might have a little more or a little less,
but that's okay.
It depends and it changes over time.
What other packages are installed?
Water.
The dependencies aren't still so again,
If your packages do not match with my packages do not panic.
You are.
Okay,
so now you'll see it is going through the packages installation.
At this point,
it is.
It has installed almost 400 packages and they're still about ah 6 to 800 packages that
needs to be installed.
And this process will take.
I would say somewhere between 10 minutes to 30 minutes,
I am going to fast forward this entire process to save time.
Now the packages installation has been completed.
Now it is going to some post insulation set up.
All right.
Finally,
our installation has been completed successfully.
Now Santo s is now successfully installed and ready for you to use.
Go head and reboot to starve using it.
Click on Reboot West.
Since the system comes back online,
it will give you the initial set up page.
The first page is about licensing.
You have to accept the license.
Click Accept license every hman click on done network and host name if you notice.
We have already selected this network and host name configuration during our installation
so that you don't need to do it again.
Click done.
And right here says finished configuration.
Go ahead and click on finish configuration.
All right.
Finally,
our entire Lennox installation has completed.
Now we have to log in the first time,
Click on your name or you could also log in as root.
If if you remember,
you have picked the root password,
you would have to click on,
not listed and type and using him crude and password.
But for now,
we'll go in as ourselves and we will put in a password,
click on Sign in or had enter.
All right,
this is the desktop.
This is how it looks like in Cento as it is very similar to Red Hat Cento s.
You have these icons right here.
You can resize them if you want to.
You could delete any I conjugal create icon.
Um and you could explore other things on the application and spaces.
So also,
one more thing when it starts up,
it also gave you this welcome page.
So you just leave as English.
Go ahead and click on next typing.
If you want to change anything you believe a default location services,
I usually keep it off.
If you want to leave it on,
it's really up to you.
Click next connect to online accounts.
You don't have to do that clicked,
skip,
and then start using sent Os Lennox.
So once again,
congratulations.
So now you know how to do the complete Lynn accent OAS installation?
If you think that you missed something that I would recommend you to go ahead and delete
this entire Lennox,
we m and go ahead and create a new washing machine.
And do the Lennox insulation again from scratch.
The more you do,
the more practice you'll do,
the more you will learn.
All right.
Good luck.